if you're not going anywhere in life
people just automatically assume that
the way to move forward is to like work
harder or be more bitna but the reason
that you're not going anywhere life may
not be a lack of ambition it may be
because you're spreading yourself too
thin
okay let's talk about solo queue so much
more toxic okay so let's do let's do
something about habits what's my opinion
on the 16 personality test what is the
16 personality test I don't know what it
is
myers-briggs so myers-briggs is is I
think a useful descriptive personality
assessment that is not that is not like
independently validated so I think it's
like a useful lens to understand
behavior but I don't think it is a good
way to like make predictions so it's
funny actually I just saw this in reddit
so the first thing to understand about
myers-briggs this it's not like
independently validated so there's a
myers-briggs Research Institute which
publishes a lot of research but it's a
proprietary model and like there really
haven't been independent studies on
myers-briggs that show that it it is
valid I think the virus Briggs can be
very useful so why are it is actually
based I think on Ayurveda because
myers-briggs is based on the work of
Carl Jung and Carl Jung's ideas were
heavily informed by our Venna
so I think it can be a useful way to
understand yourself kind of like and I
like this top end so that someone says
that it can be like a useful way to like
look at your own behavior and understand
it much like a horoscope like you know I
mean a horoscope is probably I think
myers-briggs is a little better than a
horoscope but when I talk about Lavazza
pit then gufa those are all useful ways
to understand those are useful ways to
understand like how you are as a person
and understand your strengths and
weaknesses and structure a life in your
interactions to play to your strengths
and weaknesses so a couple of other
questions are there any personality
frameworks independently a validated
absolutely so the big five I think is
the best the five factor personality
assessment is the the best validated
like system of personality and the big
five so we can talk a little bit about
the big five so the big the five factors
so what the big five says is that most
people can be sort of put on on five
different axes so the axes are
introversion versus extraversion which
is exactly what it is in myers-briggs by
the word by the way extrovert and
introvert were words that Carl Jung I
believe invented or coined the next is
agreeableness so agreeable this is like
how willing you are to go along with
people
the third is openness so how open you
are to new experiences versus how shut
off you are Democrats in the u.s or
liberals score higher on the openness
straight and then conservatives score
lower on the openness straight
agreeableness then the next one is
neuroticism so neuroticism is your
tendency for internal worry so how much
you get like bothered by things and
people may think that like being highly
neurotic is bad or is worse than being
like having low neuroticism whereas like
if you think about someone who's super
low on the the low neuroticism scale
there the traditional pothead
so they don't care about anything
they're just gonna chill and relax they
have no ambition that's low neuroticism
is that nothing bothers them they're
happy to just chill out and hang and
then high neuroticism is like people who
are super anxious the interesting thing
is if you look at medical students they
score very highly on the neuroticism
scale and then the the fifth factor is
conscientiousness which is how driven
you are towards a particular goal like
how conscientious you are how much you
take things seriously
so medical suit are actually median
income so if you want to be rich the two
best traits are high neuroticism and
high conscientiousness you have to be
very goal-oriented and driven towards
success and have follow through and be
internally very worried about things you
have to be scared or like you have to be
anxious about skip failing the task so
you study extra hard and then you have
to be like you have to study for the
test can people change I think so so you
can also like learn different ways you
have an intrinsic personality but then
you can like adopt different things you
can be naturally tended towards
introversion but as we were talking
about you can learn how to fill a room
you can be highly neurotic and then
through meditation and psychotherapy
learn to be nothing less neurotic you
could have low conscientiousness and
through some amount of emotional
processing and reflecting and growth you
can become more conscientious you can
become more open to new experiences you
can become more agreeable you can learn
how to get along with others better yeah
so Alex Croft has it right so the
traditional pot head is low
conscientiousness low neuroticism so
people are asking about okay so when
should someone change their personality
traits when they interfere with your
quality of life yeah so I want you guys
to understand this so your personality
can be what it is I think the most
important thing is that you play to your
strengths so for those of you who
understand poker like I think the
problem is that is a society and
generally speaking gamers are very
guilty of this they think that certain
things are objectively better than other
things
like they say that like in poker and ace
is better than @n like that's just true
and yes in theory it's true but if
you're playing poker and you've got the
option for a flush draw like you don't
want an ace right you want like whatever
suit if you've got like if you paint
playing Hold'em and you've got like four
ten of hearts like your strategy to win
that game like you can beat someone
who's got an ace or even pocket aces you
can still win even though the other
person objectively has a way better hand
than you do the problem is that when we
when when people rank things in a linear
scale which is what Western thinking
does we think about better and we think
about worse right we think about like
this person earlier was saying that like
the workplace is structured to
extroverts that could be true but it
sort of doesn't [ __ ] matter because
you should just understand like where
what your personality strengths and
weaknesses are and then play to those
strengths and weaknesses if you've got a
flush draw go for a flush like just
because the dude next to you has pocket
aces and can get like four of a kind
with aces doesn't mean you should even
try because it may be impossible for you
but you can still win if you just oh
sorry my mic isn't exploding [ __ ] okay
so so so I think this is the biggest
problem that people make is like you
guys are talking about personality I'd
say don't worry about having the right
personality or the wrong personality
understand what your personality is and
how you're gonna be good at it so if you
have low conscientiousness and low
neuroticism you may think like okay that
my chances of being promoted are gonna
be lower than the person who's like
worried about promotion all the time and
the person who's hard-working well
that's true and if you have higher
openness and higher agreeableness
chances are your path through promotion
is through like social standing so
people are gonna like you way more than
the person who's highly conscientious
and highly neurotic
so your path through promotion is gonna
be through charisma and once you
understand that then you have to
understand like okay like how much
conscientiousness do I need to exert and
how much neuroticism do I need to exert
and then how can I play to my strengths
then smeag ale 96 asks if it's possible
to alter our door shut somewhat
shouldn't we try to maximise our fitness
if we want to be successful yes so if
you're fit does low so remember that
problems in Ayurveda arise when your
levels are too high or too low so if you
feel like you're not ambitious or not
moving anywhere in life I do think it
will help you to increase your pipa
and more importantly like you have to
increase your Rajas but if you're
thinking about like why you're stuck in
life it may not be that your bit does
too low it could be that your vato is
too high and this is this is the other
problem so I just think about this for a
second guys if you're not going anywhere
in life people just automatically assume
that the way to move forward is to like
work harder or be more bitna but the
reason that you're not going anywhere
life may not be a lack of ambition it
may be because you're spreading yourself
too thin so this is a classic Vata
problem where vodkas get stuck because
they think they need to be more
disciplined it's not that they need to
be more disciplined it's that they spend
their energy in too many different
places so if you're the solution isn't
isn't necessarily to increase your bit
though it's to reduce your vodka and
this is exactly what I'm saying is that
depending on your individual personality
makeup there isn't a way to be
successful you just need to think about
okay what isn't what is getting in the
way of my success do I need to be more
conscientious do I need to be more
social is the problem that I'm having
that like I don't get opportunities that
other people get because I'm not social
enough
can I answer questions on suicide sure I
mean I can't dispense medical advice
I may have to advise you to go to the
emergency room but I can answer
questions on suicide like I'm here to
answer serious questions yeah so if your
cough is too high then you should lower
your cuff up right you can increase your
fit though but you can also lower your
cuff up is viewing spreading oneself
thin as a successful poor mindset I
don't know what that means
oh [ __ ] my bad okay should I switch to
the other let me just switch to the
other I don't know how to lower anything
I'm gonna just switched to my Yeti so
okay let me just think okay so the first
thing is what is Ayurveda so I last
Sunday we talked about Ayurveda which I
think a lot of people found very
interesting but thanks for linking DANC
so no No thank you guys for letting me
know we just we're trying a new mic
setup so it's important to you know find
a good mic setup so this is what you
what Ayurvedic
is all about so our Veda believes that
human beings are fundamentally different
and that there are three types of human
or three sort of qualities of human
beings and the best analogy that I can
use that's kind of very accessible is
that like there are some people that we
say have fast metabolisms these people
tend to be thin and like even if they
eat whatever they want to they can do
like fried chicken every day and they're
not gonna put on like that much weight
it doesn't mean if they're gonna be
healthy but that that like they just
don't balloon up whereas other people
are big-boned and even if they eat
salads every day they can still be
overweight and so
um Ayurveda sort of says that like
unlike Western science which kind of
says that everyone should eat a 2,000
calorie diet that these are like
everyone should have five servings of
fruits and vegetables and the kinds of
fruits and vegetables don't matter that
you should have X amount of protein it's
or Western medicine has a common
prescription for all people it assumes
fundamentally that people are the same
if you have pneumonia you need a
particular antibiotic to treat the
pneumonia who you are or how tall you
are or what your body type is or how
your stool is or how your skin is
doesn't matter at all Western medicine
treats disease with medicine the person
doesn't enter it's just a disease
medicine relationship Iyer VII that
starts off by saying that people are
different and that the the right
medicine for one person may be different
for the medicine from the medicine and
for a different person depending on what
kind of people they are and there are
three general kinds of people or the
three forces in our body which are Vata
Pitta and kapha and that depending on
the levels of your Vata Pitta and kapha
it's they're gonna manifest in different
traits personality aspects mental
aspects psychological aspects physical
aspects all of these things relate to
Vata Pitta and kapha sovath --is learn
things very easily but also get
distracted very easily they have kind of
like an ADHD mind whereas guffaws like
learn things very slowly but also forget
very slowly
and so if you understand what your door
Shai is then you can sort of adjust your
door shots first of all if some are to
hire or some are too low the other thing
is that if you understand your door shy
you should play to your strengths so
people think that
um you know like if you're not driven
and focused and ambitious that you're
not gonna be successful in life and like
I look at my colleagues who are like
researchers and stuff like that and like
I'm amazed by how much they can like go
to work every day and just do the same
damn thing and then they get grants
because they write these like 50 page
grant proposals that are just the most
mind-numbing ly boring documents in the
world and then since they get grants and
they do research they apply for
different like fellowships and
promotions and things like that and they
get them because that's what's valued in
academia and so I look at them and I say
like oh man like it's so hard for me to
do research it's so hard for me to write
a grant proposal and so I think a little
bit about like oh my god you know I I'm
not as good as they are but my strengths
are simply different I'm Ivana so I'm
Way more dynamic so if I want to be
successful I need to do like a few
different things like I suck at just
doing one thing but I do really well if
I'm doing different things if I see a
few patients today and then like I
scream in the evening and then I spent
some time writing and then you know I
spend some time filming then that's like
a great day for me like today is a good
example so I took it easy in the morning
did some writing I we work together the
recovery coaches and I met for a little
over an hour and a half and so I taught
for a couple of hours and then I
streamed for a couple of hours and I
like wrote like a manual like a chapter
for the recovery coach manual and that's
what really
works
right like that's what works for me like
I can't do the same thing every day
but I'll do a better job if I'm doing
two or three different things so I think
the main thing to understand about
personality is like when you when you
look at your personality doesn't matter
whether using five factor or
myers-briggs or IRA
and
what it really doesn't matter the main
thing is that you understand like for
this
system whatever system you're using to
to understand yourself like just
understand what the system says about
you and then develop a strategy based on
what the system recommends play to your
strengths okay